🔧 Helm Lifecycle & Hooks
1. What are Helm hooks and how are they used in the deployment lifecycle?
Helm hooks are special Kubernetes manifests that run at specific points in the chart lifecycle, like pre-install, post-install, pre-upgrade, post-upgrade, etc. They're defined by adding annotations like:

annotations:
  "helm.sh/hook": pre-install
They allow you to run jobs/scripts before or after Helm operations.

2. Can you explain a real-world use case for a post-install or pre-delete hook?

post-install: Run a job to load seed data into a database after it's deployed.

pre-delete: Take a backup of the database before it’s deleted.

🔁 Upgrade & Rollback
3. What happens internally when you run helm upgrade?
Helm compares the new chart with the previous release and applies only the differences using kubectl apply. It also records the new release version for rollback.

4. How can you rollback a Helm release and what are some risks involved?
Use: helm rollback <release-name> <revision-number>
Risks: Rollback may fail if the previous chart version is incompatible with the current cluster state (e.g., resource conflicts or missing dependencies).

5. How would you upgrade a chart while retaining previous custom values?
Use:

helm get values <release-name> -o yaml > old-values.yaml
helm upgrade <release-name> <chart> -f old-values.yaml --set newKey=value
🧪 Testing with Helm
6. How can Helm tests help in your CI/CD workflow?
You can define test pods using the helm.sh/hook: test annotation to validate that your application works after deployment. These can run smoke tests, DB checks, etc.

7. What happens when a Helm test fails? How do you handle that in production deployments?
If a test fails, it doesn’t rollback automatically. CI/CD should be configured to fail the pipeline and alert the team. You may then manually rollback or troubleshoot.

📦 Helm Dependencies
8. What is the purpose of declaring dependencies in Chart.yaml?
To automatically pull and deploy subcharts (e.g., Redis, PostgreSQL) along with your main chart. Dependencies are managed centrally.

9. What command do you use after adding dependencies to ensure Helm fetches them properly?

helm dependency update
10. How are child charts managed inside the parent chart structure?
Place child charts inside the charts/ directory of the parent. Their values can be overridden using a nested structure in values.yaml.

✅ Best Practices
11. Why is using fullnameOverride or nameOverride important in a Helm chart?
To control and simplify resource names, especially when chart names are long or reused in different environments.

12. How would you structure Helm values for different environments like dev, staging, and prod?
Use separate YAML files:

helm install my-app -f values-dev.yaml
helm install my-app -f values-prod.yaml
13. What does helm lint check for? How does it help in Helm development?
It checks for common chart errors, YAML issues, bad references, and missing fields. It ensures charts are syntactically correct before installation.

⚙️ CI/CD Integration
14. How would you integrate Helm into a GitHub Actions CI/CD pipeline?
Use the official Helm GitHub Action:

- uses: azure/setup-helm@v3
- run: helm upgrade --install my-app ./charts/my-app -f values.yaml
15. What precautions do you take before running helm upgrade from a pipeline?

Run helm lint

Test chart with helm template

Use --dry-run

Validate with helm diff plugin

Backup important data

🌐 Helm Repositories
16. How can you create and host your own Helm chart repository?

Package charts with helm package

Generate index.yaml with helm repo index

Host on a web server or GitHub Pages

17. What is index.yaml used for in a custom chart repository?
It maintains metadata (name, version, description) of all charts in the repo. Helm uses it to find charts when you run helm install.

18. Can you explain the steps to add and use a third-party Helm repo like Bitnami?

helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
helm repo update
helm install my-release bitnami/mysql
